One of the most exciting
things in insurance today, but
also something I suspect has some
in the industry fairly terrified,
is how rapidly Insurtech is growing.
And becoming not just a maybe but
a must for current carriers,
current distributors,
current enablers as money has flowed in.
And the possibilities,
the dreams that Insurtech represents
have become closer to reality.
Now, getting a handle on the size of
the market is a bit of a challenge.
However, what seems to be clear
is that it's large and growing.
For example, one recent estimate of
the size of the industry, this is in 2018,
is that revenue was already
about half a billion dollars.
And that is a significant number if we
consider the growth of the industry,
which we'll show you in just a second,
from just a couple of years ago.
Some have suggested that the cumulative
growth rates over the next five years
will see it reach about $1.2
billion in revenues by 2023.
Across the world,
the AsiaPacific, or APAC,
regions will likely have
the greatest growth rate,
in part because of the growth in
financial hubs like Singapore and
Hong Kong, Mumbai, and elsewhere.
And in fact,
the sub-segment of health insurance is
expected to have the highest growth rate,
again by some.
Others have suggested that the industry
is growing by the metrics of investments.
2017 total Insurtech investments
surmounted $3 billion,
with about 200 deals having
been done during the year.
Over 80% of those involved insurer or
reinsurer making the investment.
So industry natives investing
in technological advancements in
the industry at some point
along the value chain.
The estimates for that level of investment
was forecasted to be a 45% growth rate.
In terms of the market for corporate
control, as well as venture capital and
private equity investments,
you can see dramatic growth.
From 2013, and
just about 90 deals having been done,
to 2017 and
just under 260 deals being done.
Recent private investment seems
to have peaked in 2016, but
still remains substantial at
just under $6 billion in 2018.
When we drill down both by segment and
by geography into some of these numbers,
we see that really is a global phenomenon,
and
also is not just health
insurance phenomenon.
Now, although we saw a slight decline
in global private investment, M&A, and
investment activity from venture capitals
and private equity firms in the last year.
If you look at a little bit longer
horizon, comparing 2015 to 2017,
the number of starups has
absolutely skyrocketed.
According to SMA,
we count something like 50 in 2015.
Or as we now count, almost 1,200
at some point launching in 2017.
AXA, the global insurance company,
identifies at least six
different areas of disruption
for the insurance industry
in its Insurtech entrance.
Mobile platforms,
home office connectivity, P2P,
and sharing economies,
connected health blockchain,
connected cars and so on IoT,
all disrupting the insurance industry.
Mobile platforms allowing products
to be distributed, bought, and sold.
Home offices and
homes in general connecting back to
the kind of information aggregation that,
for
example, property and
casualty insurance might like,
for example,
monitoring the status of a home.
Take connected health,
being able to isolate
people's bodily functions or
state of their being.
Or take connected cars being
able to reroute traffic and
understand traffic patterns,
where the ability to drive
more safely might arise.
And of course,
blockchain with data privacy and
data integrity at the heart
of the insurance industry.
An adjunct to these trends
in Insurtech is the movement
of business processes, data aggregation
sharing, and so on, to the cloud.
From a recent survey from Ovum,
the increase in software as a service,
SaaS, really most of it in the cloud,
grew from about
13% in 2016 to 26%, doubling in 2018.
What they identify at around the same
order of magnitude is claims,
systems, processing data,
fraud detection systems, and
customer relation management and
marketing systems all moving to the cloud.
Embracing, perhaps some would
say by necessity, this new
modus of cloud-based
software as a service.
And of course with the advent of ongoing
data sharing, aggregation, collection,
and dissemination,
its integrity is on everyone's mind.
Blockchain has as good an application
in insurance as anywhere else.
So we can see examples.
AIA Hong Kong recently launched
an application to share very private
life insurance policy data with
its distribution chain using
blockchain secrecy technology.
The insurance company AXA in
Europe offers specific insurance,
flight delay insurance, organized on a
blockchain platform with smart contracts.
Ovum's annual survey again
highlighting the growth in the space.
Carriers and consortiums,
collections of carriers,
are almost surely going to increase the
use of blockchain along the entire value
spectrum in insurance because of
concerns around data technology.
And what it provides for the ability to,
in real time, aggregate,
dissemination, and change contracts
to be specific and customized.
For example, in the fourth quarter
of 2018, over 63 Insurtech
deals were announced in the United States
at about 1.6 billion in value.
Compared to one year before that,
that was a 24% increase in deal count and
an increase in funding
volume by just under 160%.
Those 63 transactions surmounted
those in the third quarter but
were lower than in Q1 and Q2.
Around the globe,
in the UK we saw some variation,
down 9% from the previous
quarter with China being
the second largest investor
after US based flows.
Since 2012, UK has been responsible for
under 10% of total investments.
That have been said,
investment from international
markets still remains strong.
X, US transactions represent just
under 50% about 43% of total
transactions since 2012 and just under
60% since the fourth quarter of 2018.
Very early stage investing remain strong,
which makes these numbers
even more imppressive.
Very early or seed stage investments
as well as first post seed round,
known as series A, account for just under
65% of total transactions since 2012.
In addition Insurtech funding is maturing.
Mid and
later stages were about 45% of financing
in 2018 via series A, B, or C stages.
We'll see what happens next, but
it's reasonable to expect
consolidation as time moves on.
Across segments P&C, otherwise known
as property and casualty insurance,
increased its funding volume by just
under 60% in 2018, Q3 and Q4 up by 90%.
That marked 41 property
casualty transactions.
Just a little higher than
the 40 transactions in Q3, but
a 52% increase over the prior year.
Life and health,
as we mentioned earlier, one of
the largest areas of Insurtech focus.
That was a 362% increase from
the fourth quarter of 2017.
Deal count increased
overall by 10% from Q3 and
funding volume increased by 26%.
Again in life and health.
To get a bit of a more of a refined
view of the time series pattern,
take a look at CB Insights
historical record.
For funding volume across all
stages here going back to 2012,
when really this is a life and
health arena,
with the exception perhaps of
the second quarter of 2012.
As time moves on, you can see property and
casualty came to the game.
And we see dramatic growth
across the entire industry.
You don't need a regression model but
perhaps could use
the ocular technique to see perhaps
a structural break around 2015.
And then ever increasing
funding volume reaching that
$1.6 billion mark in
the fourth quarter of 2018.
The geographic detail
points out a couple things.
First, the United States,
over the previous five years, represents
the greatest preponderance of
transactions by way of target country.
That seemed to be true in
the fourth quarter of 2018,
as well as over the last five years.
The UK, China, and Germany,
followed by India and France,
represent the remaining top players,
again by target country.
And the ordering remains fairly
constant in the last quarter of 2018.
With respect to stage of the investment,
what we saw on the last five years,
namely that seed and
angel rounds were larger by
comparison to Series A, also remained
true in the fourth quarter of 2018,
with Series B and
Series C being dramatically smaller.
When we look at the pattern
of Insurtech transaction
by investment stage over
the last five years,
we see that the seed an angel
stage financing was by far
the largest component,
followed by series A, B, and C.
That pattern remain true in the most
recent data from fourth quarter of 2018.
Again, the later stage financing,
Series D, E, and so on, and
later stages, have not yet
ramped up in the industry.
Which makes sense,
given the pattern across time that
we saw in the previous graph.
It also, again, raises the possibility
of consolidation as companies and
efforts move through the various stages
of maturity in this part of the industry.
An important question that you
might be wondering about is what
the incumbents are doing.
That's an interesting question
to ask in all industries.
If we're thinking about startups or
disruptors affecting an industry,
we look at the data we just did.
If were thinking about what the insurance
industry itself has been doing,
we can look at private technology
investment by those firms.
If we look at the pattern across
time of incumbent investment,
we see that it was essentially
nascent if we go back to 2012.
We only saw one, essentially
one deal in the fourth quarter.
However, by 2014 we saw just under 30.
By 2015 we saw 66, and then by 2017 and
2018 we saw almost a 120 deals.
Another way to interpret this is that
outside disruption was putting pressure,
and has been putting pressure,
on insurance incumbents.
And insurance incumbents,
by acquisition or by direct investment,
have now joined the party.
Again, the question wasn't if,
but when the current incumbents
invested or
purchased into the FinTech space.
And I think you're going to be seeing that
continue to increase
as time moves forward.